The Joe Rogan experience.
The, the pig thing.
I'm glad you brought that up because that is one thing that I keep hearing out
here from folks that, uh,
there's an attitude about pigs that they're disgusting.
They're just dirty creatures and they kind of just want them dead. And,
uh, I've talked to people that go helicopter hunting, and I go, well,
what do you do with all the pigs? And they're like, you'll leave him there.
And I'm like, what? Yeah. I'm like, that doesn't seem,
that seems not just wasteful, but well.
You know, I mean, there's a lot to that you.
Have ask, right. Because of the,
sort of have to eradicate a certain amount of those pigs, but yeah,
isn't there like a lot of food that you're, doesn't Latin rot there is.
So, I mean, you've, this is the, this is the Pandora's box topic for me. Um,
um, I'm very vested in it. I just wrote a book about feral hogs. Um,
Steve Vernella to, to come full circle on that. He called me the hog apologist.
Um, and it's true, but to, to your point, I think that, you know, we'll start,
we'll start there with, uh.
So to explain the numbers to people need to know how crazy it is here in Texas.
And, and, and of course these numbers are not going to be clearly defined,
you know, that it's hard to get a census on hogs. So the estimate, uh,
in the United States is around 6 million.
The estimate here in Texas is between two and 4 million.
So probably somewhere in the middle of that, maybe 2.6,
that's a number that you'll see a lot, um, maybe around 3 million, but whatever.
More than the entire population of Austin. Yeah.
Hogs spread out around, around the state.
And in the time we've been talking about, um, you know, how many
Points, so they have no breeding season,
they can breed at a very young age. Um, you know,
let's say five or six months is very conceivable.
Um, and then they have a gestation period of three months, three weeks,
three days, and then they can drop a litter of.
Noise three days. So you can just.
Plan it out. Yeah. I mean, that's pretty, pretty precise like that.
That women are very jealous. Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah. Well, I'll be giving birth on Wednesday. Yeah. At a time.
Den. And after that, I mean, they're, they,
they're able to go back into estrus pretty quickly after that.
And their litter size can be anywhere from two to 12, but, you know,
let's just say it's, you know, say even six is a lot. So you've got, uh,
you've got, uh,
a 10 month old animal dropping six babies.
And they can do it three times a year. Well.
Twice, you know, that all the way that works out, you know, you've got,
I think it's 20 S I want to say 26 days that they can go back into estrus.
Something like that. It might be 23 days. I can't remember the number right now,
um, after they give birth and they're back in asterisks. And if,
if they're living in an area, that's got a high population of bores,
they're probably going to get bred pretty quick.
And so that's when you see this explosion that has happened.
And so they're not indigenous to this country.
So they came here in the mid 15 hundreds. Um, uh,
Columbus brought some too, I mean, just to the Caribbean islands.
Uh, but the mainland was,
it's usually attributed to Hernando de Soto who dropped off a bunch of pigs on
his way before he died in Arkansas. Um, and then there was some other,
uh, explorers that also brought in pigs, um, Spanish explorers that brought in,
you know, domestic semi domestic hogs and dropped them off.
And so what we saw was this real slow build and pig populations.
There was also some Pacific Islanders that dropped them off in Hawaii way before
that. So if you're talking about the tactical United States,
did they drop them off in Hawaii as a.
Food source? No.
No. When, when, oh, oh, it was, it was, uh,
I couldn't give you a number it's it's way previous to the 15 hundreds. Wow.
That's wild. So that's a weird debate in Hawaii, right.
Because a lot of people are saying they're an invasive species and then some
folks like, well, so were people sure. Because if you think about it,
the hogs have been there as long as the people almost.
There's going to be a lot of parallels. Yeah. Yeah. There's a, uh, a very, uh,
destructive European animal arrives on our shores.
Uh, yeah. And, and now there's a lot of them. Uh, so,
you know, you've got these populations exploding, um,
throughout time, but really kind of concentrated in the late 19 hundreds,
you know, like the eighties. And then you saw people, uh, you know,
you've got a guy that loves to hunt on his ranch in west Texas.
And he says to his friend in east Texas, he's like, sure as hell,
I'd liked to be able to shoot something out here. You're around buddy.
And he's Texas. I was like, wow, man, I got some pigs. And then,
you know, traps a couple throws them on a trailer.
And now you have 253 out of 254 counties in Texas have hogs,
feral hogs.
Wow. And they're spreading all across the country too.
Right? Yeah. There there's a downward migration from Saskatchewan, you know,
and those are escaped domestic Hawks, but I mean,
let's also define what a feral hog is. It's a, it's a pig.
It's just on the wrong side of a fence. I mean, once they get out,
that's a feral pig. So I like to say it's a,
it's a domestic pig or a feral hog is just a pig without an address. You know,
they just, as soon as they get out of that pen, they're feral.
And I will readily admit, I mean, not even on purpose,
but we have shot while hunting pigs that had ear tags, you know,
meaning that at one point that was a farm pig. It's not anymore.
And what it's doing is it's breeding like crazy out there with,
with a feral bore. And it's just creating more feral pigs. So like I said,
once they're on the wrong side of the fence, they're fair game. Well,
we should have.
Explain to people what happens to pigs. Right? Um,
I've talked about it on the podcast before where people haven't heard that
episode. There's a physiological that happens to pigs when they get wild.
So when you're saying that this, these are pigs, they're wild pigs.
People like wait, but their bores boards are different than pigs.
Not that it's all called [inaudible] right?
Correct. Correct. And once they escape within months, the,
their hair can become shaggier. And we're talking about the same pig,
not it's offspring,
their hair can become shaggier and their snouts will elongate in order to allow
them to route more effectively because that's one of their primary ways of
feeding is rooting. And that's the most destructive way. I mean,
they can dig three feet down in soft dirt and they're getting routes to getting
insects there they're omnivores and they they'll go after anything.
And, and so once they get out, they go feral quick, they get,
and they get street-smarts too. I mean, they go nocturnal. I mean, they're,
they're smart, smart animals. And so you add all this together, you know, the,
the,
the herds that were initially brought here for food and then further domestic
herds, and then you have escapees over hundreds of years of, of,
you know, settling in this country and you've got escape, domestic cogs.
Then you've got hogs specifically brought in for hunting,
namely your Russian boars, your Eurasian bores, um, which are kind of the big,
hairy Razorbacks and how.
Much different are those, is it all, it's still the same species.
Yes, it is. And they're, I mean, they're, they're, it's like,
I believe and you know, not, I don't want to stand by it,
but I believe it's just like a subspecies,
there's one more Latin name after [inaudible], uh,
for the Eurasian, but freely interbreeding, it's not like, I mean, they're not hybrids where they're not
really.
They make hybrid. Right. But the hybrids are viable. Absolutely. Yeah.
So it's not like a hybrid, like a liker where they can't remember.
No, no, no, no, no, nothing like that. Uh, and so then you've got some,
some kind of specific areas.
California had a lot of Russian boars brought in and there's certain areas in
Texas. Um, the powder horn ranch down there, port O'Connor was one that, uh,
had brought some brought in specifically and deposited there. Yeah.
Is the difference in the flavor or the way they look or the flesh.
It would be really hard to determine that now,
because most of them over the years have interbred with your standard feral
pig and so pure bread. Um,
populations of those hogs are very hard to find it's debatable.
Whether the powder horn ranch population is purebred, Russian boar, I've read,
I've read different things about it. Some say that,
that it's not some say that it is, it's a high fence.
It's got a high fence around it and has had one since the 1920s, I believe.
Oh, wow. Yeah. And so whenever they brought in the boars,
those are the same breeding population.
Right. They think, but you know, you know, offense doesn't mean to a pig.
You know, I go under it, you know,
any way around it that they can flood waters come up, they can swim, you know,
it's so it's, it's not known,
but there is one sequestered population of feral hogs in the United States and
that's Ossabaw island off the coast of Georgia.
And so that was an Iberia cohort, uh, brought over here by the Spanish,
you know, pointy hats, long brown robes. They dropped some hogs on that island.
And that island has sustained a population of pure bred [inaudible]
hogs to this day. And it's called Osama island.
And they have an OSA bow island hog, which is a pure bred Miraco hog,
which is the same hog that produces the 150, $150 a pound,
uh, Serrano ham.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.